# Smart-Water-Monitoring-System

Measuring different parameters of soil and water for efficient harvesting using sensor. Modern smart water monitoring systems analyze data continually and instantly alert users to changes in the system, giving peace of mind and reducing the need for unreliable and expensive sampling. Smart systems are also designed to be easy-to-use, allowing easy access of all the data in one place, accessible via any internet enabled device. Without a smart water monitoring system, sampling is the main way water quality checks take place. The problem with sampling is that results can take weeks to come back, by which time conditions may have changed.
Using real-time monitoring, instant data allows pre-cursors to potential issues (such as corrosion) to be flagged up and immediately be addressed before major issues occur. The ability to make real-time decisions during critical moments can be vital in preventing expensive repairs and breakdown. Smart meters have already become an essential component of the modern-day electrical grids and are now finding their way in the water utilities. Currently, in a world where people are perishing due to lack of water, these meters are the breakthrough innovation that water utilities can use to provide everyone with potable water.
Water is a limited resource and is essential for agriculture, industry and for creature existence on earth including human beings. Lots of people don’t realize the true importance of drinking enough water every day. More water are wasted by many uncontrolled way. This problem is quietly related to poor water allocation, inefficient use, and lack of adequate and integrated water management. Therefore, efficient use and water monitoring are potential constraint for home or office water management system.
